Let’s see how well
you refute yourselves.
"It isn't so much
a matter of gender roles."
"It's a matter of biology."
"The female body was created
for the purpose of child-bearing."
"So at the anatomical level,
it's the female's duty to bear children."
"It's only the ideologies
surrounding gender"
"that seems to present
this ability in a negative light."
"It's also this ideology
that makes this ability a disability."
"It makes it seem that a woman
who becomes a mother cannot be anything else."
"Many women choose
not to become mothers"
"because it seems to be
something that stands in the way."
"Motherhood"
[inaudible]
"Motherhood causes women
to 'miss' other opportunities."
"That they could've become so much more
had they not chosen to become mothers."
Sir, I wasn't able to finish.
What's the verdict?
- You should be a mother.
Yes, mother.
Okay, next.
Dingdong.
"All people grieve the same way."
"You see it in the news."
"When someone grieves,
someone cries."
"Even animals cry for their young."
"Perhaps what one perceives as not
being able to totally accept someone's loss"
"is a reflection of having
finished grieving."
"That someone
has processed it quite quickly,"
"having gone through
denial to acceptance so fast,"
"that all that's left are memories."
"We may be more than memories,
but just what ifs in life."
"What if that person were still around?
Where would we be?"
"And in fact you're no longer
grieving over someone's loss"
"but just missing moments
in your life that you were with someone."
"That it doesn't even matter
who that particular someone is."
"And if you find someone else
to fill that gap,"
"then you create
new memories to move on."
- I know who that is.
I understand.
Alright, next.
"I don't believe in polyamory."
"Especially in gay relationships."
"I don't believe in it
because a lifetime is not enough"
"to get to know a person."
"The suffering and the sacrifice
is part of love."
"When someone catches your eye
or you lust for someone,"
"and you decide
to act on these feelings,"
"then maybe it's time to go back
to why you're still in that relationship."
"Cutting ties is not
the end of a relationship."
"It could just be going through
a metamorphosis."
"I don't believe in polyamory,
especially among gays"
"because there are many
reservoirs for love to go to"
"beyond this system."
Did you find it difficult?
- It's difficult because it's contradictory--
To what you really feel?
It makes you believe
the opposing stance.
But how did you
find arguments like that?
It’s a matter of looking at the same object
from a different perspective.
Maybe you also need to borrow
the perspectives of others
whose views are completely
different from your own.
So you’re also compelled
to understand the other side
without necessarily
agreeing to that.
This is one
of my favorite exercises
because you first get
to see the person’s belief
and what it's about.
It may be personal to you,
or it's made an impact on a mental
or intellectual level,
or even to the gut level,
that this is really what you believe in
and what it takes to take the other side.
This is where
you break your comfort zone,
and your confidence
in your beliefs.
It makes you understand
that you’re not the only one
living in this world.
It's always like that.
We live in a very
dichotomous world.
There's always someone
who'll oppose your stance,
which later on we will realize
is the core essence of drama.
This is now the third step.
But before we go to the third step,
read your work first.
Did your opposing stance
convince you?
You made that yourself.
If you noticed,
if you followed my instructions,
put your exercises
side by side.
Compare the two arguments.
You might get convinced
by the second argument.
What's the point of this exercise?
You don't just rely
on your opinion.
As a writer, this is one
of the processes where
when you don't really have a grasp
on the material you chose,
then it’s important to investigate
all sides of the topic,
the story or the character.
I just want to point out
that in choosing
a writing material,
you may also choose a
character as your topic.
Say you got fascinated
by your neighbor
who sells sausages
and because of that
you started researching
about her life,
what she’s doing and
why she’s doing it,
until you eventually
form a story out of it.
But what’s important
is what you see in it
that's strong enough
to turn the story into a play.
So now,
you have
a strong standpoint
on why you should tell this story
and you have
opposing arguments
against the initial topic.
Let's go to the third step.
I want you to make
some kind of monologue
where there will be two of you.
It's still you, but there are two
aspects of you talking to each other.
And through this dialogue,
these two sides of you will debate.
And then see
for yourself who'll win.
Don’t get ahead of yourself
just because you believe
the other stand.
I’ll respect your belief.
But don't get ahead of yourself.
Just observe where
this "scene" will lead to,
where two sides of yourself
are debating on the topic you chose.
Use the first and second arguments.
Don't write a prose,
but more of a conversation
or an argument on the topic you chose.
It won’t look like
two separate manifestos.
Put them in one 'scene',
but with only one person talking.
And that character is you.
You need to organize
your thoughts in a such a way
that will look like
you're debating with yourself.
Did you get it?
Alright.
- "Should a woman become a mother?"
"'Should'? Isn't that a little sexist?"
"Why is it only women
that 'should' have children?"
"Why don't we expect
the same from men?"
"We don't judge men when
they choose to not settle down"
"so why do we judge women?"
"Then again, it is only women
who can bear children."
"It's hardwired in our biology."
"Our bodies are designed
to bear children."
"Maybe this is where
that sense of duty comes from."
"It's a must for women,
anatomically speaking."
"It's only the ideology surrounding
womanhood that makes it seem negative."
"We've been taught to think,
and wrongfully so,"
"that motherhood is a disability"
"that hinders us from
becoming anyone else."
"And I know women who are mothers
and who have achieved so much."
"So maybe if we do away with
these negative perceptions,"
"we won't see motherhood
this negatively."
"But can we ever truly live in a world
where we don't think this way?"
"Old habits die hard"
"and it is difficult to just
simply do away with these thoughts"
"and expectations and roles."
"It takes work to stop
thinking in these terms."
"But who started this negative
perspective on motherhood anyway?"
"The patriarchy?"
"The so-called feminists?"
"Men?"
"Women?"
"Both?"
"Should it matter?"
"Does my identity as a woman really rest
on my choice to have children or not?"
"Shouldn't it have no bearing
on who I am and how I see myself?"
"Aren't I a woman whether or not
I choose to fulfill my biological role?"
"Sure, people might tell me
that I'm still too young."
"That I will change my mind."
"And that I will never be fulfilled
as a woman if I have no children."
"But why should I listen to them?"
"I'm not saying I won't have children.
I'm also not saying that I will."
"I'm not sure yet."
"But when the time comes,
I will decide."
She's really fired up.
Next.
"You didn't cry during the funeral,
but you cried when you came home"
"from the hospital.
When you were finally alone."
"They say grieving
is different for everyone"
"so for a few months
there's sadness."
"Sometimes you still talk to him
even though you're alone."
"You want him to visit you
to feel his presence."
"You look at old pictures
to remember his smile,"
"the places you went to,"
"the things you did,"
"until such time you can
look at old photos"
"and miss him a little less."
"You'll never forget him,
that's for sure."
"But after one year,
you don't look at the photos as much."
"He just lives in the
stories of your friends."
"The way he talks and acts."
"But you still love him."
"Or maybe you just loved him
when you were always together."
"The way you love someone
when you spend a lot of time together."
"But when spending
time together stops,"
"if he's a story seldom told,
has the love gone?"
"Sometimes the details fade."
"Did we visit this place?
Was this what I wore?"
"Was I happy that time?"
"Then you meet someone else"
"whom you get to
spend a lot of time"
"making new memories with."
"You still love what you had,
but you've moved on."
"You still remember some things,
but your pain finally ended."
Seems like the latter won?
- Moving on.
So we are witness
to a conversion.
- Yeah.
- When you think
of a counterthesis, it's like that.
Alright. Next.
- "Motherfucker.
He said he loves me."
"That I'm his favorite dish."
"That he doesn't get tired
of eating me daily,"
"for lunch and dinner..."
"Even for snacks,
he'd still choose his favorite dish."
"He says I'm like his cigarette."
"Delicious but deadly."
"But then that soured."
"He got scared."
"Discovered a new dish.
Got addicted to a new vice."
"Suddenly,"
"he wants you all in one table."
"They say addiction is best savored"
"when you experience
dying with others."
"I didn't want to stay anymore."
"But what am I going to do?"
"How should it be?"
"I tasted another,
looked for fun elsewhere."
"But after everything else,"
"his image fills my mind."
"I can still distinctly taste
his flavor against others."
"It strongly clings to my breath.
Motherfucker."
- Motherfucker.
Infidelity.
Is it right or wrong?
The truth is you've already
created a scene
in step three.
But the scene you've made,
shows what's on your mind
as a writer.
For step four,
let's try opening this up.
Exclude yourselves
from the scene you'll write.
Use the same topic,
but add two characters
that you think
will naturally talk about
the topic you chose.
You get to choose
where the scene happens.
I'll just add one requirement.
Include one item or object.
It can be a ball,
handkerchief, whatever,
that the characters
will move around in.
But don't let go of that object.
Or make sure the characters
will talk about that object.
In using this certain object,
either visible or not,
in negotiating that object,
the topic you chose
should emerge.
- How about a living thing?
You mean a pet, a dog,
something like that?
- A child?
It's possible
as long as you're not
directly talking to the child.
I imagine a sick child, for example.
That's possible, too.
Maybe a pregnancy kit.
Or...?
A death certificate.
Ashes. Urn.
But you can go, you can do even--
I'd appreciate it more if it's something
that doesn't seem connected
but will make sense later on.
Just one scene
where the object appears
and where your arguments emerge,
without necessarily going verbatim
or taking off using those lines.
Because those lines
are you talking.
Now this time,
take two characters
that are not you
but have the same dilemma.
- Only one object?
Just one first.
- Do you want more?
- No, not really.
- But what if something new shows up?
That's fine, too.
It's okay.
A set of objects, if you want.
A list.
I'm really only giving you five minutes.
- That's harder.
When I finish this game,
your time's up.